feat(exporter): Add opensearch otlp exporter (#6366)
grafana/alloy: docs/sources/reference/components/otelcol/otelcol.exporter.opensearch.md

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/alloy/latest/reference/components/otelcol/otelcol.exporter.opensearch/
description: Learn about otelcol.exporter.opensearch
labels:
  products:
    - oss
  tags:
    - text: Community
      tooltip: This component is developed, maintained, and supported by the Alloy user community.
title: otelcol.exporter.opensearch
---

# `otelcol.exporter.opensearch`

{{< docs/shared lookup="stability/community.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

> `otelcol.exporter.opensearch` accepts logs and traces telemetry data from other `otelcol` components and sends it to OpenSearch using the bulk API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`otelcol.exporter.opensearch` accepts logs and traces from other `otelcol` components and sends them to OpenSearch through the bulk API.
```

{{< admonition type="note" >}}
`otelcol.exporter.opensearch` is a wrapper over the upstream OpenTelemetry Collector [`opensearch`][] exporter.
Bug reports or feature requests will be redirected to the upstream repository, if necessary.

[`opensearch`]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/{{< param "OTEL_VERSION" >}}/exporter/opensearchexporter
{{< /admonition >}}

You can specify multiple `otelcol.exporter.opensearch` components by giving them different labels.

## Usage

```alloy
otelcol.exporter.opensearch "<LABEL>" {
    client {
        endpoint = "http://localhost:9200"
    }
}
```

## Arguments

> The following arguments are supported:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the following arguments with `otelcol.exporter.opensearch`:
```

| `logs_index_fallback`      | `string`   | Fallback logs index used when routing fails.                                                                      | `""`           | no       |
| `logs_index_time_format`   | `string`   | Time-format suffix appended to `logs_index` (tokens: `yyyy`, `yy`, `MM`, `dd`, `HH`, `mm`, `ss`).                 | `""`           | no       |
| `traces_index`             | `string`   | Index, alias, or data stream name to send traces to. Overrides the default `ss4o_traces-{dataset}-{namespace}`.   | `""`           | no       |
| `traces_index_fallback`    | `string`   | Fallback traces index used when routing fails.                                                                    | `""`           | no       |
| `traces_index_time_format` | `string`   | Time-format suffix appended to `traces_index`.                                                                    | `""`           | no       |
| `bulk_action`              | `string`   | Bulk action used for ingestion. Must be `"create"` or `"index"`.                                                  | `"create"`     | no       |

> | `timeout`                  | `duration` | Time to wait before a bulk request is marked failed. `0s` uses the underlying client default.                     | `"0s"`         | no       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Name                       | Type       | Description                                                                                              | Default       | Required |
| -------------------------- | ---------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------- | -------- |
| `bulk_action`              | `string`   | Bulk action for ingestion. Must be `"create"` or `"index"`.                                              | `"create"`    | no       |
| `dataset`                  | `string`   | Observability dataset name used in the default index pattern `ss4o_{type}-{dataset}-{namespace}`.        | `"default"`   | no       |
| `logs_index_fallback`      | `string`   | Fallback logs index when routing fails.                                                                  | `""`          | no       |
| `logs_index_time_format`   | `string`   | Time-format suffix for `logs_index`. Uses tokens such as `yyyy`, `yy`, `MM`, `dd`, `HH`, `mm`, and `ss`. | `""`          | no       |
| `logs_index`               | `string`   | Index, alias, or data stream name for logs. Overrides the default `ss4o_logs-{dataset}-{namespace}`.     | `""`          | no       |
| `namespace`                | `string`   | Observability namespace used in the default index pattern.                                               | `"namespace"` | no       |
| `timeout`                  | `duration` | Maximum time to wait before the exporter treats a bulk request as failed. `0s` uses the client default.  | `"0s"`        | no       |
| `traces_index_fallback`    | `string`   | Fallback traces index when routing fails.                                                                | `""`          | no       |
| `traces_index_time_format` | `string`   | Time-format suffix for `traces_index`.                                                                   | `""`          | no       |
| `traces_index`             | `string`   | Index, alias, or data stream name for traces. Overrides the default `ss4o_traces-{dataset}-{namespace}`. | `""`          | no       |
```

Active voice in descriptions. Alpha sort rows

`input` accepts `otelcol.Consumer` data for logs and traces.

## Component health

`otelcol.exporter.opensearch` is only reported as unhealthy if given an invalid configuration.

## Debug information

`otelcol.exporter.opensearch` doesn't expose any component-specific debug information.

## Example

Forward OTLP logs and traces from an OTLP receiver to a local OpenSearch cluster:

```alloy
otelcol.receiver.otlp "default" {
    http {}
    grpc {}

    output {
        logs   = [otelcol.exporter.opensearch.default.input]
        traces = [otelcol.exporter.opensearch.default.input]
    }
}

otelcol.exporter.opensearch "default" {
    dataset   = "kubernetes"
    namespace = "production"

    client {
        endpoint = "https://opensearch.internal:9200"
        tls {
            insecure_skip_verify = true
        }
    }

    mapping {
        mode = "ss4o"
    }
}
```

With this configuration the exporter writes to data streams matching the SS4O naming convention: `ss4o_logs-kubernetes-production` and `ss4o_traces-kubernetes-production`.

To target a static index instead, set `logs_index` and `traces_index` explicitly.

> ## Compatible components

Reviewer: This whole section should be generated.

Remove the manually added Compatible components section. Then from the repo root (in your branch) run `make generate-docs`.  Once this is fixed, I will review the docs content once more. :-)

Author: Thanks for the `Suggested changes` i applied those, run `make generate-docs` and rebased.
